If
somebody handed you a check for a million dollars
and it had one restriction on it, you must pass it on
to Texas A&M, but you can decide what you want A&M to
do with it. If you could give A&M a million dollars,
what would you tell them to do with your gift? Well,
I'm afraid it wouldn't go to education. It would go
to the activities programs of the Corps because I
still believe that the Corps is a good education.
What activities would you have? What money I do
give mostly goes to the capital. Okay. And I'm sure
you can understand why, because, but I do belong to
a number of other things, you know, but I jointly
have a scholarship, a presidential scholarship
and a core scholarship and that sort of stuff, but
those things are going to come along anyway. But
the million dollars to me was going to make sure
that they have these things to keep attracting
them into the Corps. And if it's scholarships, it
does it great, and I'm sure it is. To what former
faculty, students, staff, whatever, to what
people connected with A&M do you feel the most
grateful for what they meant to you and why? Well, I
think I've already told you what Dr. Harrington
meant to me. I had one of my military instructors,
it was then Captain Roy Smith. He was an Aggie, but I
didn't know anything else about him. I was very
patient and helpful. So you kind of looked up to
those guys. I mentioned Majalis, that was my XO, my
battery. You kind of, you know, sometimes you want
to talk to an older guy about what should I do about
this out of the other. And if you'll turn this
machine off there. What have we not covered about
your student years that we should have? Oh, I don't
think there's a whole lot. I wrote down some
things. Let me look real quick.
The
class of 49, you know, had three different
starting classes, and then they, what we call,
souped us up, gave us privileges ahead of time. So
we ended up wearing our boots senior year when
actually one academic semester we were juniors.
So we had a semester of college left, and new
seniors were coming in and taking command. So we
still were under military contract and so forth,
and they moved us into dorm one. And there were two
floors of us and two companies. We still wore the
uniform. We still had to march to Chow and do
everything else the Corps had, except we didn't
have to send more information. And we were kind of a
maverick group. Nobody loved us anymore. So that
was just another year of living in the dormitory,
wearing the uniform, and not really belonging
because we were all seniors. And you didn't have to
worry with any of the, We had no, we just had a place
to sleep and whatever. We didn't have to do the
other stuff. In fact, they didn't want us to mess
with them. There was a new group taking command.
But I don't think there's probably been another
one. Maybe there was somewhere in history. Okay,
anything else? I was going to ask you a thing about
this. Okay, the last question of this part. What
feelings do you carry in your heart about Texas A&M
now? How do you feel about A&M? Well, to me, next to
my immediate family, it's the closest to my heart.
Everywhere I go, I think, you know, I'm an Aggie,
and I don't hesitate to let people know that. I
think I have more stickers on my Lincoln than these
guys have on their pickup trucks. I'm
very sensitive to spotting ivies. And I'll tell
you one little story. Just very recently, we go to
Barksdale to the commissary, and I had on a t-shirt
like this probably, because I wear them 98 times a
time. And there was a handsome-looking black guy
coming down there, a big old boy. I wouldn't fathom
him. He had on a Texas ivy shirt. And so I went over to
him and I said, I'm Tom Parsons, class of 49. He
looked at me and, you're what? And shook hands with
me. You're an Aggie, aren't you? I'm an Aggie. Oh,
you mean this? And he said, I work for Goodwill and
we're stocking groceries. good will to give me a
shirt. So anyway, I don't hesitate to spot the
Aggies and they do very close to me and just these
gentlemen, I feel real good when I meet one of them
and sometimes they even recognize my name. Not too
long ago, Oh, three or four years ago, Grace and I
were out at the cow barn one day and just wandering
around, nobody there, and this kid walked up and I
introduced myself and, are you related to Colonel
Parsons? This is named after him? I said, yeah,
that's me. And he said, oh, I thought he was dead. So
I know they know me well out there. But I don't think
my feelings are any different than 99% of the
others. I just don't know. I've never heard
anybody put A&M down that survived A&M. Maybe some
put them down that didn't make it, but that was
their own fault. Let's quit with that. Testing 1,
2, 3, 4, 5. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Testing, testing, testing,
testing. This is the second interview with
Colonel Parsons. This is the 20th of September.
We're in room 207. in the Evans Library and today we
will be concentrating on his years here as
Commandant and then as the Campus Security and
Parking and Traffic. I didn't get that title
exactly correct. Security and Traffic. Security
and Traffic. To introduce this part of it, you were
on active duty in the Army. How did you and A&M have
any link about possibly coming here as
commandant? Well, I was stationed at Fort Carson,
Colorado, and at that time I was commanding the 4th
Infantry Division Artillery, which had six
battalions in it. I'd just about come to the end of
my command tour time. I was within six months of
going to be transferred anyway. And I heard about
the job being opened and then I heard that Bon,
Billy Bon, had been selected. Well, Billy screwed
up and made general. He's a classmate of mine.
Well, I heard through Billy that, hey, there's an
opening down there. took leave and hopped on an
airplane and flew down. I didn't tell anybody
where I was going but my wife, because obviously my
general and I didn't get along anyway. I was
smarter than him and he didn't believe it. Anyway,
I came down and
I can't even think of his name now. General, Dean of
Men. Hannigan? Dean Hannigan was in the chair. Of
course, he understood military people pretty
well. He took me around and talked to me for a long
time. Anyway, Dr. Williams wasn't there at the
time. And he said, no, you're going to have to come
and visit Dr. Williams if we around here agree that
you're the man. So I hopped on the plane and went
back to Colorado. And I got another call from him. I
flew back down. And Dr. Williams evidently was on
some other mission at the time. So back I go. And
meanwhile, it was summer camp time. And the cadets
were at Fort Riley, Kansas. and Dr. Williams went
to visit the cadets and I went over for an interview
with him there and met the cadets that were the Army
ones that were out there at the camp and everything
went well and Dr. Williams
said if you can get out of your command, you're the
man for the job. That was not difficult. My general
was more than happy to see me leave. We didn't see
eye to eye on a few things. I headed out for A&M in the
summer of 1971. When you talked to Dr. Williams, do
you remember, what did he, did he ask you
questions? He asked me personal questions. What
seemed to be his concerns? Yes. Well, he was very
interested in females. He was interested in Navy
ROTC. He was interested in not so much my
educational background. He didn't ask me much
about my military background because Dean
Hannigan had already found out. I mean, it's easy
to find out that stuff. But mostly it was just kind
of social. And then we went to the, they always have
a party for the Aggies at these things, and we went
to that. And, of course, I made it good with the
cadets that were there because, you know, I fitted
in pretty well with them, I guess. Describe your
first impressions of Dr. Williams. Oh, I was a
little frightened in a way. I mean, you know, he's
the easy man to talk to, but after all, you know,
he's the president and I'm the colonel or
whatever. There's a big gap in that. And he was very
polite to me. We had a couple of drinks and, you
know, I guess he talked to me maybe 30 minutes. Did
he at all mention his World War II military record?
I didn't know at that time . And so you came then in?
Summer of 71. Summer of 71. And he had come in
November 1, 1970. Right. Colonel McCoy was the
commandant then and he had already retired and
they let him stay on active duty until I came in. So
you then are signed as a U.S. Army Professor of
Military Science. Yeah, but you were officially
still a member of the Army. You weren't? Oh yeah.
That's what I thought. Okay. Describe the core
staff of the military and military science when
you got here. Well, we were Army and Air Force, and
of course I had the responsibility for the Army's
ROTC program, and I had a lieutenant colonel who
was my deputy, who in a sense ran the Air Force, the
Army ROTC. The Air Force had a colonel, Crosland
was his name, Bob Crosland. And from the ROTC point
of view, we were separate, just like the
difference between political science and
engineering, I guess. But I had 18 officers and
seven enlisted men. And the enlisted men, some of
them were instructors because they were better
qualified in a lot of areas. And we had four
civilian employees, Department of the Army
civilian employees. and one university employee
there. So it was a fairly large operation. The Air
Force was about the same in size and whatever. The
Army had a few more cadets than the Air Force did.
For the Commandant's Office, it was totally, in my
opinion, understaffed. I had to pull Don Johnson
out of the Army program and make him the deputy, and
that's one of my Army people, and I'm already out of
the flight. The Air Force provided me a major, and
the rest of the people, which was one, two, five
people in the office, and three male civilians who
were so-called advisors to the Corps, one of whom
was Malin. And they, of course, tried to keep track
of, you know, problems in the dorms and this, that,
and the other, and yell practices and so forth. And
that was the size of the staff. About, of all of the
staff, about how many of them were Aggies in their
undergraduate training? Well, I'd say the Army
ROTC officers were probably 75% and the Air Force
more or less about the same percentage. Of course,
Aggies were fighting to get the job. You didn't
have to beg them to come to A&M. The problem was
getting them to release them to come to A&M.
Because an ROTC assignment is not the most
productive for your career. Yeah, yeah. And I had
had a previous ROTC assignment at Boston College.
And so my career was, well, my career was okay. It
didn't hurt my career, but it put you off track for a
while. And the corps offices then were. They were
all active duty. No, no, I'm sorry. The location of
the offices for the commandant were all in the
trigon? All in the trigon. Well, let me rephrase
that. These three civilians, we had a little
office in these little, what do they call them,
lounges, and so they had an office there. The, and
what was the, what was the Corps enrollment that
fall? Do you remember? I can tell you pretty close,
about 2,300. About 2,300. We never fell below
2,000 when I was there. and describe as you come in
that fall, describe the activities of the Corps
compared with what you remembered them when you
were a student here. What had changed and what
hadn't changed? One thing is, we mentioned it
earlier, they wore their boots. You know, we never
did ours. You know, they wore them almost
everywhere. And the other is that the, there was a
pretty much, not as much segregation as there was
in the Air Force here and the Army over on the other
side and so forth. There was pretty much. You
didn't have to be an Army ROTC cadet to be in an Air
Force outfit. In other words, they were mixed up
based on the academic area more than anything else
because they were assigned, basically, if they
didn't have a choice of outfits, If they were an
engineer, we had companies that were oriented
that way, and liberal arts were oriented and so
forth, which I thought was a very good idea. We had a
medical company, which was a very good one,
engineers and so forth, signal. So those things
were a little bit different, but I didn't
really... Some of the things we used to do, like
have a drum and bugle in the morning, I always loved
that. That never happened when I came back. Used to
have the Reveille gun fire and that went away when
the veterans came back and cemented the cannon. So
those little things were there, but the mansions
were the same, the mess hall, same sort of deal.
They did things that we never did, like lighting
the napkins and burning them on people and that
sort of stuff. The food was the same names and all
that stuff, and a lot better. And the dormitories,
they had not changed. Pretty much just like they
were, except that they were allowed
upperclassmen build their own rooms, you know,
juniors and seniors. And some of them were pretty
lavish and didn't matter back in my days. They all
looked pretty much alike. And there were no room
inspections by the Bulls anymore. We did this. We
had officers responsible for certain outfits and
they'd go through, but as far as inspections, we
didn't do those. Did you, were there any problems
that you inherited to which you had to give your
immediate attention. No, it was really very easy
to move into the job. I think had I not been an Aggie,
it would have been impossible. I respect that
choice that the commandant should always be an
Aggie, and I still think he should always be an
Aggie. I agree with you, but explain why you feel
that way. Because they are totally accepted by the
Corps when they come in. They don't have to go there
and say, And these are core agas I'm talking about.
They don't have to go over and sell themselves. And
the core, if they don't like you, you might as well
pack your bags. And I think it's pretty much that
way now. They won't come in to see you if they don't
know that you understand what they're trying to do
and how they do it. And let's see, the corps
officers for 71, 72 had already been selected
before you got here, hadn't they? Yeah. So that you
didn't have any hands. I had nothing to do, but I
sure Tom Stanley was a, you may know Tom, I think
he's a lawyer here in town now. Tom Stanley. Oh,
Stanley. He was just outstanding. He was gung-ho
military. He went airborne, ranger, served in the
Army, and then become a lawyer. I haven't seen him
since. Did anybody, Dr. Williams or Dean Hannigan
or anybody give you any directions of things to do
or not to do? Well, not really, other than Dean
Hannigan, you know, wanted to tone the hazing as
much as I could. We didn't, the women part had not
come up and didn't for a couple of years. But nobody
really came in and said, well, I want this done,
that done, the other done. And Dr. Williams didn't
either. Now, if there was a problem with some mama
or something, I heard from Dr. Williams, And
sometimes, you know, he had a temper. And
sometimes he was, because they hassled him and I
wouldn't blame him. He'd pass it down to me and he'd
jump me and whatever. I'd get to the bottom of it,
get him straightened out and go up and talk to him
and he'd, You know, you're smiling exactly now.
Give some examples of those problems that you
remember. Well, in the band, I see there was one
mother called him, and then this was in the
nighttime, and her son hadn't been able to wear his
underwear in 30 days, and she wanted it stopped.
Well, the time it got to me, I didn't know that. I
mean, I don't do underwear inspections, and
Nobody told me anything else, and Dr. Williams, of
course, let me know, and I'd go over there and find
out that they'd taken their footlocker. Well,
they didn't do that in my days either, I might
mention, and so it was retaliation. They couldn't
wear their underwear until they got his
footlocker back. So I got his footlocker back and I
got the underwear privileges. It's that sort of
stuff.
They were not big problems. I had a woman problem
with one of the L leaders. His cousin was staying in
the dormitory for the weekend and the other
members weren't too fond of one of the latrines
being closed off to them. show the curve and have a
place and that sort and I was able to, you know, that
was pretty easy to solve. I didn't take them off of
the elevator, but I took them off of this command
position. And did anybody give you any directions
about the hazing that they thought was going on
when you? Not in general. It was usually on
specific incidents that happened. It was I don't
think it was, it was nowhere near as bad as it was
when I was there. And so far as I know, the board was
not in the dormitory. I think it probably happened
at beer brush they had off campus and things like
that. But it wasn't, and we didn't have these deals
where they throw water out of the dormitory
windows and drown them out. We didn't do that and I
didn't like that too much. But I couldn't have
stopped it. It was one of those things that wasn't
big enough issues to go over there and hassle
about. So I pretty much could go in stride. Now the
corps commander usually was very, very
cooperative, and of all of them I had, And if there
was a big problem, you got them and they really hit
us right down. If they agree with you, if they
don't, they'll tell you. And they say, this is a
better way to do it. And they're right. I mean,
these kids, you know, they're pretty mature. In
the six years, which, to which corps commanders
would you give the, I'm not going to ask you the
negative, who were the best corps commanders you
worked with? Well, Scott Everhard. You may know
Scott. He's a very, very dear friend now. Tom
Stanley was very good. I had one that I had to get rid
of. Joe Chandler was a good one, but he was not among
the top. Mike Gentry was outstanding, but I
selected him, but I was gone when he served, but I
know he was great. because we knew from the day he
came he's going to be our corps commander. When you
became the new commandant, what were your goals?
What did you hope to achieve? Well, my primary goal
was providing officers for the service, and with
emphasis on Army, although I tried to be as
green-coated as I could, but that was, you know,
that was, we were in the war too then, early stages
of the Vietnam War, fairly early stages of it. And
so I worked real hard in programs for them as the Air
Force was working for their programs. And we had no
real conflict. When we had recruiting sessions
and so forth, we didn't go around saying, hey, you
don't want to get in the Air Force. You don't want to
do this, that, and the other. That's all I know. I
know I didn't. Now, when people came into my
office, you know, when they come in with a
freshman, I talked to everybody I could. And
although I'm not an Army aviator, I was a crew
member of airborne command post. They used to fly
around for the nuclear war. And I had wings, so I
must admit I wore my wings because, and strictly, I
usually didn't wear them. There are a lot of these
kids that say, well, I want to fly. And I'd say,
yeah, well, the Air Force got a good program. I
said, the Army does, too. And, you know, the Army
has more pilots than the Air Force does, and still
does, because of the helicopters. But that's
about the only thing I did. And I insisted on doing
the new student orientations because, first of
all, I do a pretty good job in public speaking,
getting the crowd with me, and I work very hard and
so forth. I didn't try to sell the Army or anything.
I just talked about all the programs. I didn't talk
ROTC too much. I only talked core activities. I
don't know. You might have seen one of my sessions
or whatever. I used to do them with I can't even
think of a name. I love him to death. He always tells
us the story about the three-legged dog. Doctor,
he retired years ago. He'll come to me in a minute.
But in his new student conferences they used to
have. Anyway, there was no, the military corps
thing was not a conflict. It was a marriage more
than a conflict. Did you, what was your goal in
terms of Corps membership size? We always wanted
to fill the quad. And that would have been about
twenty? About twenty-two, twenty-three
hundred, something like that. And one year, we did
have to open up a couple of the dormitories. I've
forgotten which one it was, but we had a real good
recruiting there. I've got the numbers in here.
I'll dig it out. And I think the numbers were based
not on any, I mean, these are kids who wanted to come
to A&M, but based on the war business, too. And we
did have some programs that we introduced were
very popular like we were the first ROTC unit to be
allowed to go to jump school. The Air Force, I mean
the Academies were going and my Sergeant Major
happened to work for General Westmoreland and he
was going home jumping out of airplanes anyway and
he says, why don't we do this? Sergeant Major
McDonnell, who used to be the Chief of Police. And I
said, well, I don't know. I'll talk to the Army. And
he said, no, I'm going to do better than that. And he
could grab the phone and call it up and says, I want
to talk to General Westmoreland. And he did. And
General Westmoreland said, I don't know any
reason why these people who are under contract
can't do this. Anyway, so we started it. And we were
the first to go. And the next year, they had
Sergeant Major said to me that we're going to sign
up a hundred cadets to go this year to jump school. I
said, great. He said, I told them all if I got a
hundred signed up that you would go. And I said,
that ain't so great. I said, I'm not going to go to
jump school. I said, I have no interest in that. He
said, well, you don't have to do it like everybody
else. There's a senior officer program. You've
got to just have a good physical and whatever. I
said, no way, but you tell me you promised those
kids. I said, all right, this is what I'm going to
do. I'm going to call my boss and ask, I'll have to
have permission. And my boss, thank goodness,
said, no way are you going to go to jump school. So I
didn't go. And they understood that part of it. It
wasn't my cowardice, although I wanted a part of
it. But we also had cadets, we were the first ROTC
cadets to go to ranger school. We saw a lot of them
through ranger school. And they always come out
number one, as they did in jump school and summer
camps. One year we had cadets that were number one
in all Army, Air Force, and other schools that they
went to. As you got here and looked at the quality of
the students that were in the Corps, How did that
compare with what you remembered 30 years
earlier? Or 25 years earlier? Well, they didn't
seem to be a whole lot different. They probably
were better educated than we were because the
educational system progressed a great deal. At
the time that I was a cadet, you know, we didn't have
all these things. Even now, the 70s are out of date.
But they were pretty bright people. And really,
whoever, I don't know if the TT chose the
leadership or not, but whoever did, did a pretty
good job. We used to always have interviews and
ended up pretty much doing what the outgoing
leadership wanted. But I don't remember scoring
against them except once or twice. And it
originally had a great deal to do with whether you
had a contract or not. You were supposed to have
one. Some of them got the command and then dropped
their contract for one reason or another. And I
think I might have mentioned, I personally was
opposed to that being a requirement because of my
own situation. And I thought it was very unfair.
And so I deleted that requirement, and I'm proud of
that part of my contribution. Because, I mean,
it's great. That was my job to get officers, but I
don't want to get them on the basis of you're not
going to be able to be a cadet commander if you don't
take a ROTC contract. Now, in the routine that you
developed, What was the process for selecting the
Corps' leadership? Well, we had the military
people make recommendations. They might have two
or three outfits they were responsible for
overlooking. And Malin and his crew made
recommendations. And then we got
recommendations from the Corps staff. And based
on those, we pretty generally went along with what
the Corps staff recommended. But did you
participate in some of the interviews? I mean, all
when I was president, myself and the Air Force.